So the next lesson is
on decision structures.
So oftentimes programs, they have to
make some sort of decision, right?
So we need to provide different
paths of execution within our code.
So in this section, we'll look at
various types of decision structures,
as well as relational and logical
operators to help us evaluate conditions.
So the first decision structure
we'll look at is the if statement.
The if statement says if a certain
condition occurs, do something and
then go back to the main flow
of the program, all right?
So let's write another program.
This one says that all salespeople
get a payment of $1,000 for the week,
and anyone who exceeds 10 sales gets
an additional bonus of 250, all right?
So let's code this up.
Okay, so within our project part, we're
going to create a new package, right?
Cuz we're talking about a new
subject again, package,
just typically some sort
of logical grouping, okay?
So this one,
we'll call a decision_structure.
Notice I'm starting with a lowercase.
Two words, I'm gonna use a underscore.
And in this decision structure,
let's create a new class.
So we'll call this one SalaryCalculator.
Salary begins with a capital S.
All right, great.
First thing we need to create in here,
who remembers?
>> Main.
>> Main method, all right.
Another trick, I can type main tab.
So within my main method,
let's go ahead and
initialize the things
that we already know.
So we'll declare and
initialize some variables.
So we can say the salary is 1000,
that was given to us in the prompt, right?
And then the bonus was 200,
also in the prompt.
And then the quota for
bonus was 10, right?
All right, now let's get values for
things that we don't know.
So we'll need to do a little
bit of input and output.
So we'll ask them how many sales,
Did the employee get this week?
And we're gonna wanna read that in,
so we'll use the scanner.
Now, notice this is a brand new Java file,
so
I needed to redefine this stuff,
you're not using it across.
Got an error for scanner,
what do I need to do?
>> Import.
>> Import, very good, so now I have
my import statement up top here.
And I'm gonna read from the console,
so that System .in.
And we're going to store
the sales in its own variable,
so we'll say int sales = scanner .nextInt.
Okay, and now, so
this was the main flow of the code,
this is applicable to any employee.
The prompt said if a person got more than
10 sales, then we need to add something.
So that's where you have to make
a decision within your code, and
we can do so with the if statement.
So you simply write the word if and
a set of parentheses.
Inside of the parentheses is a condition.
This condition must result in true or
false.
So you're gonna write some sort of
expression that's either gonna be true or
false, these are known as Boolean values,
all right?
So if sales is greater than quota.
That will be either true or
that will be false.
If it is true, it'll go inside of
these curly braces after the if and
it'll execute any code that's
written inside of here, all right?
So we're saying if the sales
is greater than the quota,
then their salary should
be updated to whatever
their salary already is plus the bonus,
okay?
So that's a quick detour.
And then we go back to the main
flow of the program, which, again,
is applicable to anyone who runs this,
all right?
So we can just simply
print out their salary.
We'll append salary there, okay?
Shall we run it?
Okay, so
how many sales did the employee get?
Let's say, and I am big on testing, so
we'll check a couple of
different options with this.
So let's say something lower than 10,
maybe 5.
Salary is 1,000, that's what we expected.
All right, let's run it again, this
time we'll say right at that cap of 10.
Great, they also get 1,000.
And then we'll run it one more time,
this time more than 10, let's say 15.
This time they should get 1,200, right?
1,200, so now we know that this works.